welcome to opponents about finding the
best possible way of transporting
resources from one place to another so
the very classical problem coming from
economics but they're in fact very
classically the current flow variations
try to find a minimizer and optimizer
but then in fact it turns out that total
pass code can be applied to other
problems so it really can be used in
copy different areas of mathematics so
one direction that I've been using was
to study this so called isoparametric
inequalities so these are inequalities
is coming from geometry where you try to
find optimizers of shapes that optimize
the ratio between area volume so you're
trying with the right power so it's a
sense you're trying to find objects that
have the least possible area with fixed
volume so the answer in this case is
given by soap bubbles so bubbles around
the spheres that's the answer
but then it turns out that that's a
pragmatic inequality if you change a bit
some formulas can be used to describe
the shape of crystals so crystals us
take ever set a shape because they still
minimize some kind of surface energy and
you just need to change some fun ones
but it's mathematical almost the same
and then I was got interested in what
happens when you take let's say I the
best the ideal crystal or the deal so
bubble which is completely wrong and you
give energy to the system by prisons
heating the crystal so the party cement
particles that compose the crystal glass
start to move you must understand how
the shape changes and by using transport
I could kind of track the movement of
these particles and it's really true
this powerful tool that we were able to
prove a kind of optimal estimates on how
the energy given to the system affect
the shape in a different direction of
your transport actually applies to our
system that you probably like which is
the Scimitar strophic equation so these
are the system coming from meteorology
which is very connected to fluid
dynamics also and essentially we want to
model large-scale atmospheric floods and
it turns out that young disabled
there is come some kind of working on
transport principle that we can kind of
model in the following way so you look
at let's say of a cloud for instance to
simplify and you look at the particles
that compose the cloud
billions of particles and you look at
the cloud are two instant of time so
it's like taking a picture of the cloud
and then take immediately after second
picture and from picture one to picture
two particles have moved you have one
bit of particles of the last year but 1
billion particles on the right and you
ask yourself just by looking at the two
pictures who went where so you can
adjust by look at this just at the
global picture understand which
particles on the light corresponds to
which particle to the red to the left
and that's not a requester because you
know it's very chaotic and the transport
can be used to give you the answer
so it's sense you realize that there is
a minimization problem behind it where
you want to minimize the total kinetic
energy dissipated to move from A to B so
once you understand this connection this
extraction found by my column so
meteorologists in UK you are on the
right path to try to solve this equation
finding something meaningful the problem
is that even if this connection was
found in the 90s there were several
results about optical transport that
still went missing and didn't allow
mathematician really to close the circle
and being able to use this often
transport intuition to apply we need to
solve this P DS and especially that's
what I did so I kind of the doctor
transport work needed to then apply and
solve these equations the your discrete
so that gave lots of really nice
practical applications yeah it's often
the classically exciting people say
about that so they are you know is it
actually gonna do something and it's I
think it's great that I think Walmart is
great but I think it's particularly
great that in your instance you've got
these very very obvious you know this we
can understand this this transport thing
we can understand clouds where the
crystals like all very very important
things have you actually in like been
able to do experiments or get data to
test the theory or is that like too far
advanced would not
being possible now it will be possible
the promise that of course you know
mathematicians have this attitude a bit
like this is to simplify units
so when also the units are one minute I
mean you know on the signature story
equation is different because they're
and they're still worth needed to really
being able to apply to really very
physical situations as a mathematician
you still need to go by steps so the
what we got was the very first result we
could solve these equations but for
instance of the crystal deafening one
could try to check that the numerical e
what these estimate gives what I can say
is that mathematically that's what we
got is the best possible one so there is
no way you can improve it because even
got a very good number I mean like
number form was very complete balance
yeah with the specific constants we
never try to check it certain experiment
so much that how much they match because
one should have to look at the different
units and
yeah as I said oh here's a cube
mathematician and my colleagues as well
I've obviously thinking as the file a
position because I did experiments
provide DHS litchi
every lab you know big type of water
trying to do models and Internet see it
I could get data to fit so that was just
my first thing when you're talking about
these I'm just like I want to do these
experiments I want to get crystals add
energy and see if I get the stage where
do you need and maybe some people's
already and then just one final thing
then where where are you going next so I
saw in one of the
they I see her videos you said you had a
30 to 40 years worth mr. t limits but so
does this mean you you know you have an
idea exactly what you want to do and
where you want to go oh that would be
too much I think the reality that there
are a lot of beautiful prophets and
mathematics got very excited the last
couple of years about these phase
transition problems yeah so that's
something which and Steven line of
research where there is a lot to be done
and I really enjoy that there are other
questions still related to what their
passports and then you know the reality
is that making plans and work for most
of the people you plan to do something
but if you plan something over ten years
most likely it's you fire something will
happen your life that will change so I
try to be on a shorter to two years
timescale whatever what you know in the
next few years for this is very good
that you know as a more cinematic
additional rifle grounds so I need an
ounce for my research and that I feel
young for me because every time apply
usually had asked for money for you know
three or five years and then I have to
find the province which I want to work
on and convince the people that what I'm
doing what I want to do is interesting
and is worth financing and this
intellectual process so asking for a
ground is actually useful because that
you take a moment to see just think what
I want to do why I want to do why is
interesting wise worth my time why is
worth your money so together and I think
sometimes is used to talk this moment to
sit down and think of it so that's why I
said I have of course a I believe I will
have brought for the fourth but they go
more 35 years thank you
every time yeah I don't trust myself
everything that's very sensible based on
how you were describing your
mathematical career today it almost
something would come off on you like
that's interesting I think that's a
great way to to be almost sort of you
know yeah we come in from different
backgrounds sometimes is very useful
because you can bring the ideas from a
different area of course inside
something I mean it back but of course
give me time in damages